https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-20400 Right-sizing doc (#7970)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/obs_right_size.adoc

[optimize-work-right-size]
= Optimizing workloads by using right-sizing recommendations (Technology Preview)

The right-sizing feature compares real-time CPU and memory usage with the resource configuration you set and offers recommendations to optimize workloads on a namespace and cluster level.

With right-sizing, you can use infrastructure more efficiently, reduce costs, and ensure better performance across workloads by identifying over-provisioned or under-utilized resources across managed clusters.

*Required access:* Editor

[#right-size-prereq]
== Prerequisites

> - The multicluster observability operator is enabled on the hub cluster.

Reviewer: @rajusem do we need to mention ACM also installed in hub?

Reviewer 2: MCO will come into picture after installing ACM only, I guess its fine. 
@oafischer Any thoughts ?

Author: This is ACM docs so mentioning that ACM needs to be installed is normally not necessary. Almost everything in ACM docs requires ACM to be installed on the hub.

[#enable-right-size-prereq]
== Enabling right-sizing recommendations

You can enable right-sizing recommendations by enabling the feature in the `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource on the hub cluster. Complete the following steps:

Run the following command to open the observability instance configuration:

[source,bash]
----
oc edit multiclusterobservability observability
----

. Add the following lines to the `spec` section of your `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta2
kind: MultiClusterObservability
metadata:
  name: observability
spec:
  capabilities:
    platform:
      analytics:
        namespaceRightSizingRecommendation:
          enabled: true
. . .
----
+
You can set `enabled:` to `false` to disable right-sizing recommendations.

After enabling right-sizing recommendations, the following resources are created automatically:

The `rs-namespace-config` ConfigMap:: Stores configurations for placement and `PrometheusRule`.

> The `rs-prom-rules-policy` policy:: Contains the Prometheus rules to evaluate resource usage.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Change `policy` to `Policy` here for consistency with naming conventions. Same change can be done for `placement` to `Placement`.

Author: Updated

The 
The `rs-placement` placement:: Determines target clusters based on label selectors.
The 
The `rs-policyset-binding` PlacementBinding:: Binds the policy and placement together.

> You can view right-sizing recommendations by accessing the `ACM Right-Sizing Namespace` Grafana dashboard in the console.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what our usual practice is, but just a suggestion — would it make sense to include a screenshot of the final Grafana dashboard in the documentation?

With short write-up like:
- In the dashboard, users can view resource usage, requested values, and recommendation metrics at both the namespace and cluster levels. 
- The aggregation dropdown allows you to adjust the data view over different time periods, helping you analyze trends and make informed rightsizing decisions.
- Additionally, users can filter and sort the data table to focus on specific namespaces or metrics of interest.

Author: We generally avoid screenshots in docs, as they can become outdated (which causes maintenance issues) and because they are not as accessible to screen readers. We also need to avoid documenting the console/UI unless necessary, since the console should be designed to be self-explanatory/easy to use.

We can revisit this if users have issues navigating the feature.

> You can view right-sizing recommendations by accessing the `ACM Right-Sizing Namespace` Grafana dashboard in the console.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to the user if we provide exact path for accessing right-sizing recommendations dashboard.Like Dashboard->RightSizing Recommendation->ACM Right-Sizing Namespace

Author: That I can add. Updated!

[#optimize-work-right-size]

> = Optimizing workloads by using right-sizing recommendations (Technology Preview)

Reviewer 3: Remember that we don't "recommend" in tech doc, this is in the manuals. It is best to remove that word here.

Author: Updated

> The right-sizing feature compares real-time CPU and memory usage with the resource configuration you set and offers recommendations to optimize workloads on a namespace and cluster level.

Reviewer 3: **that** you set. Please scan the doc for any other instances that need this.

Author: Updated

With right-sizing, you can use infrastructure more efficiently, reduce costs, and ensure better performance across workloads by identifying over-provisioned or under-utilized resources across managed clusters.

*Required access:* Editor

[#right-size-prereq]
== Prerequisites

- The multicluster observability operator is enabled on the hub cluster.

[#enable-right-size-prereq]
== Enabling right-sizing recommendations

> You can enable right-sizing recommendations by enabling the feature in the `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource on the hub cluster. Complete the following steps:

Reviewer 4: Enable and by enabling makes it a bit repetitive, so I would rephrase this bit, something like:
```suggestion
You can access right-sizing recommendations by enabling the feature in the `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource on the hub cluster. Complete the following steps:
```

Reviewer 3: access would be correct here if they need a permission to access or have to go through something to access it. I think implement or something is better.

Also, we need to not say recommend.

Author: I'll go with implement then, thanks

> . Run the following command to open the observability instance configuration:

Reviewer 4: I'd switch the order, it's easier to skim the steps:
```suggestion
. Open the observability instance configuration by running the following command to:
```

Reviewer 3: The first one is better and more concise. All of us could reduce the "by running" "by using" "by this" "by that." In the doc. I am not sure why so many are doing that but it does add to wordiness and it is not active, it is passive. We should be writing more active. This is also in all the guidance.

Reviewer 4: I think because it's easier to follow where you are in a longer procedure. Just imagine the following (ignore if this technically makes sense or not:
1. Run the following command to create the namespace.
2. Run the following command to create a pod. 
3. Run the following command to change the spec of your pod.
4. Run the following command to apply the changes.
vs
1. Create the namespace by running the following command:
2. Create a pod by running the following command:
3. Change the spec of your pod by running the following command:
4. Apply the changes by running the following command:

The second is easier to skim through if you're looking for a specific command and the introductory phrase ("the following command") is closer to what you're introducing. I vaguely remember that we do have a guideline to place the intro phrase and the subject close together as possible. As a non-native speaker, I can confirm that most of the time, it's easier to understand the closer they are.

Reviewer 3: . Open the observability instance configuration. Run the following command:
(also an option)

+
[source,bash]
----
oc edit multiclusterobservability observability
----

> . Add the following lines to the `spec` section of your `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Enable the right-sizing feature by adding the following lines to the `spec` section of your `MultiClusterObservability` custom resource:
```

Reviewer 3: I think the first is pretty concise and basic.

Author: I'll leave this as is for now

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta2
kind: MultiClusterObservability
metadata:
  name: observability
spec:
  capabilities:
    platform:
      analytics:
        namespaceRightSizingRecommendation:
          enabled: true
. . .
----
+
You can set `enabled:` to `false` to disable right-sizing recommendations.

After enabling right-sizing recommendations, the following resources are created automatically:

The `rs-namespace-config` ConfigMap:: Stores configurations for placement and `PrometheusRule`.
The `rs-prom-rules-policy` Policy:: Contains the Prometheus rules to evaluate resource usage.
The 
The `rs-placement` Placement:: Determines target clusters based on label selectors.
The 

> The `rs-policyset-binding` PlacementBinding:: Binds the policy and placement together.

Reviewer 4: If we're specifying the resource kind, we should use backticks (e.g. `ConfigMap`)

Reviewer 3: Yes, this is in the manuals, I am pretty sure...good catch.

Author: Updated

> The `rs-policyset-binding` PlacementBinding:: Binds the policy and placement together.

Author: ```suggestion
The `rs-namespace-config` `ConfigMap`:: Stores configurations for placement and `PrometheusRule`.
The `rs-prom-rules-policy` `Policy`:: Contains the Prometheus rules to evaluate resource usage.
The 
The `rs-placement` `Placement`:: Determines target clusters based on label selectors.
The 
The `rs-policyset-binding` `PlacementBinding`:: Binds the policy and placement together.
```
